today we're making a chocolate mousse
inspired by the famous French food
scientist and Matisse he found that you
can make a mousse with nothing but
chocolate and the water and indeed you
can
as far as vegan gluten-free desserts go
it's quite good but the addition of a
few egg yolks and siphon aeration take
it to a whole new level
let's start with 200 grams of dark
chocolate with 70% cacao content 65 to
75 will work but don't go outside of
that ranch if you're using bars work
them on the counter while they're still
wrapped up to break them up this is way
less messy than doing it with a knife
measure out 165 grams of freshly brewed
black tea or coffee
add half a teaspoon of vanilla extract
and 1 tablespoon of Grand Marnier that's
optional you can replace it with more
tea pop in the microwave until the
mixture reaches 180 Fahrenheit stir in
the chocolate and whisk until it's
completely dissolved now we'll need four
large egg yolks this preparation won't
be cooked so if you are worried about
Salmonella cook your eggs in gently
simmering water for one minute
most Salmonella occurs on the shell of
the egg and thus will kill it
immediately called the eggs often cold
water and separate make sure to remove
any coagulated white and little roti
strings attached to the yolk using an
electric mixer beat you yolks on one by
one
beat thoroughly after each addition and
don't add more yolks until there is no
trace of the previous one let's scrape
out our bowl and give it all the final
mix call you mixture 290 Fahrenheit
before you pressurize it pour the
chocolate preparation into a siphon put
the gasket in the lid press the lever
and screw on the nozzle screw the lid on
to your siphon make sure it's state or
you won't be able to pressurize it now
charged with two nitrous oxide chargers
lets you standard creme Chargers when
you screw them on you'll hear a little
kiss
shake the siphon valve for about 10
seconds to distribute the guests then
unscrew the first charger you'll hear
another little hiss that's normal and
the second charger shake and unscrew
let's check out texture good some other
siphon tips shake well before each use
and make sure you hold the siphon
perfectly upside down don't hold it at
an angle if you want you can layer the
mousse with fruits nuts or preserves
here I am adding some cashews and
chopped prunes
and here's my favorite combination of
chocolate and black currant I'm using
black currant jam that I thinned out and
boost up with a little bit of cassis
that's black currant liqueur of course
you can use of raspberry cherry and fig
jams the possibilities are endless after
you divide the mousse into cups this
will produce about six cups of seven
ounces each refrigerate for at least two
hours and up to three days before
serving
while our mousse is chilling let me show
you how to wash a siphon
most people are stumped the first time
they do it or at least I was first
release all the pressure by pressing on
the lever until the siphon stops making
hissing noise then unscrew the top wash
the bottle with a bottle brush and a
little bit of soap you can also put the
bottle in the dishwasher the top should
be washed by hand remove the gasket and
wash with a soapy sponge now unscrew the
nozzle and wash it out with the handy
dandy little brush that came with your
cell phone now wash out the inside of
the lid flip that little brush around
and use the handle to separate all the
little plastic thingies so that the
water can access them I also like to
clean out the nozzle opening with the
tip of the brush but don't stick it in
too far and that's all there is to it
now mousse has been in the fridge for
two hours and it's ready to eat
if you refrigerate it for longer than
three hours I suggest you bring it back
up to room temperature for about an hour
before serving of course it's delicious
straight out of the fridge but a bit to
step out top mine with whipped cream I
hid the whole bad porn moaning and
breathing that the company is every
chocolate dessert on YouTube so instead
let's analyze this texture you see those
bubbles
the texture is so light it's like a
chocolate chiffon cake when you put it
on your mouth you expect it to be a tad
dry but it surprises you with the
richest chocolate creaminess
unadulterated by sugar this dessert has
to be tried to be believed and it has
Valentine's Day written all over it so
if your Valentine is gastronomically
inclined you can make them this mousse
and give them the gift of a second
nothing says I love you like dark
chocolate and nitrous oxide as always
the information about the recipe and
equipment is on my blog linked below
this video for more ways to seduce
people with food science don't forget to
subscribe to Helens kitchen channel and
if you're ever in the Boston area maybe
I'll see you in one of my classes